README.md, before:

# gradle-versioning
A Gradle plugin for applying project version from Git tags.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Widen/gradle-versioning.svg?token=UKs7oqY6xCy4WamxJFLH&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Widen/gradle-versioning)

## Overview
This plugin moves your project version out of the `build.gradle` file, and instead uses Git tags as the canonical source of truth for version numbers. This makes it easier to maintain nice version numbers and eliminate "Bump version" commits.

Version numbers that are generated are based off of the output of running `git describe --tags` in your repository with a few minor changes. Generally the version number syntax follows the below scheme:

> (last tagged version) `+` (commits since last tag) `-` (current commit hash) (`-dirty` if dirty)

## Usage
Add the private repository to the list of plugin repositories in `settings.gradle`:

```
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
        maven {
            credentials {
                username System.env.JFROG_USER ?: USER
                password System.env.JFROG_PASS ?: PASSWORD
            }
            url 'https://widen.jfrog.io/widen/repo/'
        }
        gradlePluginPortal()
    }
}
```

Then apply the plugin using the standard `plugins` configuration:

```
plugins {
    id 'com.widen.versioning' version '<current version>'
}
```

Once the plugin is applied, your project will now infer the current project version automatically based on the most recent release in your Git repository. Be sure to remove any `version '<version>'` lines in your `build.gradle`, or the version number will get overwritten.

### Configuration
The default settings should be good enough for most projects, but there are a couple of settings you can set to change how versions are generated if you need them. For example, if your Git tags are prefixed with a `v`, you can have versions generated only from such tags and then have the prefix removed using the `tagPrefix` setting:

```groovy
versioning {
    tagPrefix = 'v'
}
```

Below are all the available settings and what they do.

| Name        | Default value | Description |
| ----------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| tagPrefix   | `null`        | A prefix that tags must start with in order to be considered a version tag. The prefix is removed from the final version string. |
| excludeTags | `null`        | A regular expression for tags that should be ignored. |
| dirtyMark   | `true`        | Whether a `-dirty` suffix should be added to the version string if the Git working directory is dirty. |

### Automatic publishing
If you are using Travis, the following configuration works quite nicely:

```yml
after_success:
  - test "$TRAVIS_PULL_REQUEST" = false && ./gradlew publish
```

## Semantic versioning
Version numbers generated by this plugin _do_ follow the [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 spec](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html), but with a caveat. SemVer does not have the concept of post-release versions or semantically meaningful build numbers, so we put the current build number into the _version build metadata_ (everything following the `+`). This works, but most SemVer parsers ignore this part of the version in comparisons (as the spec says it _SHOULD_ be ignored), so be careful if you are doing any parsing on the version number yourself.

## Releasing this plugin
This Gradle plugin uses the most recent version of itself to determine its next version, so preparing a new release of `gradle-versioning` is much like releasing a normal project using this plugin. Simply publish a new tag in the Git repository, and a build will be published to the Maven repository automatically.

Commit message:

feature: initial version if no tags are created

README.md, after:

# gradle-versioning
A Gradle plugin for applying project version from Git tags.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Widen/gradle-versioning.svg?token=UKs7oqY6xCy4WamxJFLH&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Widen/gradle-versioning)

## Overview
This plugin moves your project version out of the `build.gradle` file, and instead uses Git tags as the canonical source of truth for version numbers. This makes it easier to maintain nice version numbers and eliminate "Bump version" commits.

Version numbers that are generated are based off of the output of running `git describe --tags` in your repository with a few minor changes. Generally the version number syntax follows the below scheme:

> (last tagged version) `+` (commits since last tag) `-` (current commit hash) (`-dirty` if dirty)

## Usage
Add the private repository to the list of plugin repositories in `settings.gradle`:

```
pluginManagement {
    repositories {
        maven {
            credentials {
                username System.env.JFROG_USER ?: USER
                password System.env.JFROG_PASS ?: PASSWORD
            }
            url 'https://widen.jfrog.io/widen/repo/'
        }
        gradlePluginPortal()
    }
}
```

Then apply the plugin using the standard `plugins` configuration:

```
plugins {
    id 'com.widen.versioning' version '<current version>'
}
```

Once the plugin is applied, your project will now infer the current project version automatically based on the most recent release in your Git repository. Be sure to remove any `version '<version>'` lines in your `build.gradle`, or the version number will get overwritten.

### Configuration
The default settings should be good enough for most projects, but there are a couple of settings you can set to change how versions are generated if you need them. For example, if your Git tags are prefixed with a `v`, you can have versions generated only from such tags and then have the prefix removed using the `tagPrefix` setting:

```groovy
versioning {
    tagPrefix = 'v'
}
```

Below are all the available settings and what they do.

| Name           | Default value | Description |
| -------------- | ------------- | ----------- |
| initialVersion | `"0.0.0"`     | An initial version number to use if no tags are available. Can also be overridden by setting `version` manually. |
| tagPrefix      | `null`        | A prefix that tags must start with in order to be considered a version tag. The prefix is removed from the final version string. |
| excludeTags    | `null`        | A regular expression for tags that should be ignored. |
| dirtyMark      | `true`        | Whether a `-dirty` suffix should be added to the version string if the Git working directory is dirty. |

### Automatic publishing
If you are using Travis, the following configuration works quite nicely:

```yml
after_success:
  - test "$TRAVIS_PULL_REQUEST" = false && ./gradlew publish
```

## Semantic versioning
Version numbers generated by this plugin _do_ follow the [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 spec](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html), but with a caveat. SemVer does not have the concept of post-release versions or semantically meaningful build numbers, so we put the current build number into the _version build metadata_ (everything following the `+`). This works, but most SemVer parsers ignore this part of the version in comparisons (as the spec says it _SHOULD_ be ignored), so be careful if you are doing any parsing on the version number yourself.

## Releasing this plugin
This Gradle plugin uses the most recent version of itself to determine its next version, so preparing a new release of `gradle-versioning` is much like releasing a normal project using this plugin. Simply publish a new tag in the Git repository, and a build will be published to the Maven repository automatically.
